you're probably familiar with FOMO
that's short for fear of missing out
it's that feeling you get when it seems
like everyone else is doing something
better than what you're doing right now
but there's another foe you need to know
about and it's far more dangerous
it's called Fobo and it's short for fear
of a better option we live in a world of
overwhelming choice even decisions that
used to be simple like choosing a
restaurant or making everyday purchases
are now fraught with over analysis
technology has only made the issue more
pronounced if you want to buy a pair of
white shoe laces online you have to sort
them thousands of items and read through
hundreds of reviews that's an astounding
amount of informational process to just
buy two pieces of string that cost less
than your morning latte chances are
you've experienced Fobo when you
struggle to choose just one from a group
of perfectly acceptable outcomes it's a
symptom of a culture which sees value in
collecting and preserving as many
options as possible you might wonder why
all this is so bad it seems
counterintuitive shouldn't it be a
privilege to have so many good options
to choose from
the problem is Volvo introduces such
severe analysis paralysis that it can
negatively impact both your personal and
your professional life when you can't
make decisions with conviction you waste
precious time and energy luckily there
is a way to overcome Fobo here's a
secret with any decision you make you
first have to determine the stakes as
this will inform your decision making
strategy when it comes down to it you
only really face three types of
decisions in life
high stakes low stakes and no stakes
let's start with no stakes decisions
these are the minor details of life
where there is almost never an incorrect
answer and in a few hours you won't even
remember making the decision in the
first place a good example of this is
choosing what to watch on TV with
thousands of shows it's easy to get
overwhelmed yet no matter what you pick
the consequences are basically
non-existent so spending more than a few
moments on Fobo is a massive waste of
energy you just need to move on when it
comes to no stakes decisions the key is
to outsource them to the universe for
example you can whittle down your
choices to just two and then
coin or try my personal favorite ask the
watch assign each one of your choices to
one half of your watch then let the
second hand tell you what you're going
to do looks like I'll be having a fish
that brings us to low stakes decisions
these have consequences but none are
earth-shattering and there are plenty of
acceptable outcomes many routine things
at work like purchasing a printer
booking a hotel or choosing between
possible venues for an off-site are
classically low stakes in nature some
thinking is required but these aren't
make-or-break deliberations and you'll
probably have forgotten about them in a
few weeks here you can also outsource
decision-making but you want some
critical thinking involved as there are
some stakes this time you'll outsource
to a person set some basic criteria
select someone to present a
recommendation and then take their
advice make sure to avoid the temptation
to canvass your goal is to clear your
plate not to kick the can down the road
now that you tackle low stakes and no
stakes decisions you've created the
space and time you'll need to handle
high-stakes decisions these are things
like which house should I buy or which
job should I accept
since the stakes are high and there are
long-term implications you absolutely
want to get it right before we get to
work let's establish a few basic
principles to guide you through the
process first think about what really
matters to you and set your criteria
accordingly second gather the relevant
facts make sure you collect data about
all of the options so you can be
confident that you're truly making an
informed decision and third remember
that Fobo by nature comes when you
struggle to choose just one from a group
of perfectly acceptable options so no
matter what you choose you can rest
assured that the downside is limited now
that you've established some ground
rules the process can begin start by
identifying a front-runner based on your
intuition then compare each of your
options head-to-head with a front-runner
one by one each time choose the better
of the two based on the criteria and
discard the other one here is the trick
to avoiding Fobo when you eliminate an
option it's gone forever if you keep
returning to discarded options you risk
getting stuck now repeat this process
until you get down to one final choice
if you follow this system you will
usually end up with a decision on your
own on the rare occasion that you get
stuck you will outsource the final
decision to a small group of qualified
people who you trust and who are
equipped to provide you with guidance
on this particular topic engaging five
or less ideally an odd number of people
so that you have a built-in tiebreaker
if you need it now that you've made your
choice one last challenge remains you
have to commit I can't promise you that
you'll ever truly know if you've made
the perfect decision but I can tell you
this a significant percentage of people
in the world will never have to worry
about Fobo unlike the billions of people
who have few options if any do to war
poverty or illness you have plentiful
opportunities to live decisively you may
not get everything you want but the mere
fact you get to decide is powerful in
fact it's a gift make the most of it
[Music]